---
title: Moutse Community Radio Station 96.3 FM - 'Your friend to rely on'
slug: 130128-moutse-community-radio-station-963-fm-your-friend-to-rely-on
post_id: 538
canonical_url: https://www.radiohead.com/deadairspace/130128-moutse-community-radio-station-963-fm-your-friend-to-rely-on
published: '2013-01-28'
published_display: Mon, 28th January 2013
source_page: 10
rendered_at: '2025-11-04T15:58:38.368558+00:00'
assets:
- remote_url: https://rsrc.wasteheadquarters.com/Yjg4OTY5ZWE5ZTVmNWRmYzlkODFiZDNi/IMG_2616.JPG
  local_path: images/001_IMG_2616.JPG
  checksum: e1256b38dbf29359bf6c4a571a5322d9f953635c6d9f4bddef35dc6c2d739109
embeds:
- tag: iframe
  src: https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fapi.soundcloud.com%2Ftracks%2F76807595
---

<p>We drove across some beautiful countryside, from Johannesburg to Moutse in the region of Limpopo. Moutse is a rural area dotted with small townships, set in a sweeping green landscape covered in scrub and low trees. We arrived around 4pm at the radio station and were met by a dozen local children, all wearing their CRF t-shirts and media cards round their necks. After lots of hugs, dances and songs, the plan for that afternoon was to prepare for the live show the next morning.&nbsp; <br/><br/><br/><iframe frameborder="no" height="166" scrolling="no" src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fapi.soundcloud.com%2Ftracks%2F76807595" width="100%"></iframe><br/></p><p>I went with three of the young reporters - Liezel, Busi and Renieilwe - to interview&nbsp; Sylvia, who was wheelchair bound after an accident at work. She lived just down the road from the station, in the local village with dust red roads and crazy wire fences. The children spoke to her with tact and grace, and such enthusiasm for making the story. Sylvia wasn&Atilde;&cent;&euro; t able to read, so the children couldn&Atilde;&cent;&euro; t write their questions down for her, as they would normally do. Instead, they broke the interview down and rehearsed it with Sylvia until she was comfortable.<br/><br/>After the interview, we all nipped back to the station, where the other children had stayed past tea. There was time to finish uploading their audio onto the studio computer, ready for the live show the next morning. I was beginning to realise what a massive time commitment these children have to make in order to produce the programme, on top of their school and helping out at home.<br/><br/>Everyone was very excited about the programme and looking forward to the broadcast. The youth trainer and station presenter, Baby Girl, helped the children rehearse their moves, and the stage was set for showtime next morning!<br/><br/>On Saturday we got up early and returned to the radio station. As well as her weekly CRF slots, Baby-Girl has a her own three-hour afternoon show, five days a week. The children present every Saturday 8am to 9am. The programme is called &Atilde;&cent;&euro;~Tswadaar' - which translates as 'get out of there' - it&Atilde;&cent;&euro; s&nbsp; street slang, and it&Atilde;&cent;&euro; s used to encourage youth to get out of situations that aren&Atilde;&cent;&euro; t good for them.&nbsp; &nbsp;<br/><br/>The show&Atilde;&cent;&euro; s slogan is 'Zikhathane Of Another Kind.' Zikhathane - pronounced &Atilde;&cent;&euro;~Ko&Atilde;&cent;&euro;"Ta&Atilde;&cent;&euro;"Ne' - is a youth culture in South Africa that celebrates consumption by flaunting cars, designer clothes and cash. The Zikhathane hold dance-offs and compete in bling, even burning their own money. &nbsp;<br/><br/>'Tswadaar' was presented by a boy called Koki and a girl called Sponono, which means &Atilde;&cent;&euro;~beautiful'. The other kids crammed into the studio space, listening fiercely to the show as it went out live. Busi, Liezel and Renielwe&Atilde;&cent;&euro; s interview with Sylvia sounded great! Then it was my turn to be interviewed by Koki and Sponono.<br/><br/>After the show the team met for a debrief and feedback session. There was lots of support, encouragement and positive criticism. The two presenters, Koki and Sponono, asked the others how the show went. Everyone felt the show had gone well, but that it could&Atilde;&cent;&euro; ve been quieter in the studio! Busi, Reneilewe and Liezel - the three girls who interviewed Sylvia - said they found it hard to get her to speak longer than 15 second bursts for the interview, so they had to keep pausing the recorder and rehearse with her.<br/><br/>Sponono, 19 years old, talked about her nerves, and said that she&Atilde;&cent;&euro; d had a little cry before the show because she was anxious about being the presenter that week. She also mentioned that she had been moved by some of the other children&Atilde;&cent;&euro; s reports on disability. On air she was flawless and had asked me a question that I floundered to answer &Atilde;&cent;&euro;" 'Does being an Ambassador need qualifications?'<br/><br/>The children then spoke about how they would like to take this weeks&Atilde;&cent;&euro;  topic of disability further, by doing some outreach and having an event where they could play back the audio commentaries and profiles they&Atilde;&cent;&euro; d recorded. They hoped to change their communities&Atilde;&cent;&euro;  view of disability and noted the interviewee Sylvia&Atilde;&cent;&euro; s words &Atilde;&cent;&euro;" 'Do not put disabled people inside&nbsp; - give them a platform'.<br/><br/>Finally, it was time to choose a topic for next week&Atilde;&cent;&euro; s show. Koki suggested a programme around the question &Atilde;&cent;&euro;~which township&Atilde;&cent;&euro; s rocking?' They decided to visit four different villages, interview some knowledgeable locals and conduct some vox pops. The kids wanted to promote the positive stuff in their area; such as where was fun to hang out; meet local artists, actors and musicians. <br/></p>
<p class="signature">Colin</p>
